One instance when Git did not work was for my commit messages. Even though I used the “cd” command in the MacBook terminal to go to my egr105-git folder, it did not register that in VS Code, which still thought I was in my main directory. Therefore, I was not able to commit the changes that I made to the code to Git. After searching the web for any issues, I asked my friend, who is proficient in code. She wasn’t sure about the issue, so I quit VS Code and showed her my entire process again. After seeing what I did, she pointed out that I should enter the file through either the VS Code terminal or open the repository through VS Code itself by selecting the folder to open. After trying that out, I was able to make the commits to Git.

Initially, my code was not working as I expected it to. I was able to complete one half, for adding yay to words ending with vowels, but my code was not able to do the second part correctly. I took a step back and went through previous assignments and codes to see if I had made any syntax mistakes. I tried writing an algorithm for the code by hand, then writing it down in VS Code in the form of comments, and finally translating each comment into code, making the variable names more descriptive (instead of just a, b, c) to understand them better. This helped me create a new code that worked for both parts.

Version control will not only be helpful to me in the remainder of the EGR 105 class but will also help me in the future. By committing meaningful messages that help me remember and track the changes I or anyone on my team make to the code, it will be easier to debug and communicate within the team. I think every time a change is made to the code—including changing syntax, variables, or adding new sections—I will make commits so it will be easier to track the progress of the code. In my commits, I anticipate including the changes made, the line numbers where the changes occur, and the purpose of the changes to create a comprehensive view for anyone to see.